Banishing Users and Sites

	At times it may be desirable to disallow a certain internet site
access to the mud, due to either a rowdy user or system administrator 
request.  This is done in two ways, depending on the type of ban you wish
to impose.  The file /adm/etc/access.allow is used for limiting accesses
from named or partially named sites by number of logins and/or the (local)
time of day.  The banish daemon and associated commands in /cmds/adm/_nuke.c
and /cmds/adm/_banish.c are used to limit sites to admin-created characters
only and for the disallowing of certain name constructs if self-creation has
been enabled.  In breakdown:

	The /adm/etc/access.allow file:  Any entry in this file has 6 parts
all seperated by commas.  The first part is the IP address of the site being
affected (eg 128.138.129.2 is an example of an IP).  You can allow address
entire subnets by using a * as a wildcard.  The number 128.138.*.* will affect
every machine on the 128.138 net.  The next field is the class.  This can be
any positive number.  It is best to have a seperate class for each entry in
the file.  The last three fields are probably the most important.  The first
of these is the maximum number of users allowed.  If this number is 0, no users
are allowed.  If it is -1, then no limit is enforced.  The next two fields
represent the beginning time and ending time the record is in affect.  These
numbers should be represented in 24-hour format, ie 8 = 8am and 20 = 8 pm.
These times go by mud time or local time for the location of the mud not from
where the person is connecting from.  The last field is simply the message
printed on the screen when a connection is disallowed.  In the case where more
than one entry applies to a site, the entry earliest in the file will be the
one used.

	The banish daemon:  The banish command in /cmds/admin/_banish.c can be
used to add, remove or list both banished names and sites.  The format is
slightly different to the access.allow file - the partial site 128.138.*.* as
shown above would simply be 128.138 here.  Names can also be full regexp
constructs, for example '.+uck.*' will forbid any name containing the letters
'uck' unless they only occur as the first three.  The save file for the daemon,
 /adm/etc/banishes.o, is also readable.

	Banishing users and certain user names is often advantagous.  For
example, the names root or gamedriver can be dangerous if a user is allowed
to use them to log in.  This can lead to security problems with the user
destroying the files on the mud or insta-wizzing themselves.  Also, problem
users can sometimes be subdued by disallowing them to log in under their regular
characters name.  Cursing words may be disallowed to keep players from using
them for names.  These types of names are often offensive to other players.
Finally, some muds choose to disallow players to log in with names corresponding
to those of monsters on the mud in order to reduce confusion for players.
Imagine you type, "kill ogre" and the person you are playing with is named Ogre.
So instead, of attacking the monster in the room, you start fighting with each
other.  This can be very discouraging.
