help magic
 
English version drafted by : elon@eastern.stories
11-14-93
 
The magic system of Eastern Stories is divided according to the power
and the knowledge required to cast a spell:
 
elemental:
Elemental magic is based on the energy hidden in the nature elements, in
order to control the energy properly, one usually needs higher magic
power and a knowledge on the elements. The ability of casting a more
stabilized and useful spell is what makes an elemental magic user special
among other magic users.
 
demology:
The origin of demology is unknown, but some said that in order to gain
knowledge of this kind of magic, one has to sell one's soul to the demons
in exchange of a demonic creature as an assistant. The name of the creature
can not be known by the others, or it will leave the caster and the
caster's soul will be stuck in the darkness forever.
 
white magic:
Since the ancient time, white magic has been a kind of special power given
by the gods to the gifted. The energy of this power is from the bright
side of the world, anything that is good, non-evil can have the energy
released for the casters to use.
 
black magic:
Many doubt the origin of the black magic, but after the war of magic
ended some four hundred years ago, they believe that, like white magic,
black magic is also given by the gods above. But unlike white magic, the
energy used to cast black magic is from the caster himself. The caster has
to have a very strong mental power in order to control the force from the
darker side of the world and even little errors can cost the life of the
caster himself.
 
animism:
Animism is very special kind of magic. Unlike other magic, animism is
acquired not from studying magic books but depends on the species of the
casters. About 80 percent of the animism casters are the elves living in
their own dimension. Most of them were born with this special ability.
Recently, many outsiders, mainly people who wanted to study animism, have
tried to get in touch with these magic elves but without any success.
 
curse:
Curse is a very ancient form of spell, but very powerful if learned properly.
In order to learn to cast a curse, one has to know some very weird, complicated
curse language and be able to comprehend the meaning of them. Combine with
dancing and some ritual activities, the power of curses can make other casters
jealous.
