   The MudOS mudlib comes with the ability to handle quests and one quest
already installed as an example to guide you in writing your own. The
default mudlib requires you to complete all quests before it will promote
you to wizard (unless you are frobbed via the makewiz command).
   In the adventurer's hall is the Book of Quests. Players can read this book
to get details of the MUDs quests. There is also the quests command which will
tell them which quests they have solved and which they have not. The data on
which quests a player has solved is stored in the player properties. The
property "quest" is a mapping whose keys are the names of the quests and whose
values are 1 if the player has solved the quest and 0 (or undefined) if he
has not. Whenever a player completes a quest, you should:

    set ("quests/name",1) ;

where "name" is the name of the quest.
   Items used in quests define a property called "quest_recognize" which you
should set in all quest items, and should query whenever you check to see if
the quest has been completed. This prevents a player for being credited for
a quest by finding another object with the same ID as the quest object. You
should usually set this to the name of the quest, so that people can figure
it out, but there's no technical requirement: anything the quest item and
quest checker can agree on is fine.
   The quest that comes with the default mudlib is quite easy and is only
intended as an example quest for you to base you own on. It calls for the
player to go out into the mountain valley (go out the north road until you
reach the bridge, go about 5 steps west along the creek, and go south once.)
There he can pick up a shrubbery which he takes back to town and takes to
the bank, where the bank janitor will take it from him and give him credit
for completing the quest. The relevant items are /d/Fooland/items/shrubbery.c,
which is the quest item, and /d/Fooland/bank_janitor.c, which gives credit
for completing the quest when you enter the bank carrying the shrubbery.

   When you add your own quests, there are three changes you need to make in
the mudlib. First, you need to alter the Book of Quests so that people will
know what the new quest is. Second, you need to change the total number of
quests in the quest command. Third, change the number of quests required
for wizardhood in /d/Fooland/hall2, if you are requiring all quests to be
completed for wizhood (or 2/3, or whatever).
