
         Eastern Stories general guild lines for wizards and players
         ----------------------------------------------------------

Qualification of being a wizard
-------------------------------
In Eastern Stories, in order to be a wizard, you have to do the following:

        (1) Finish all the "guild" quest.
        (2) Advance to level 19, and spent at least 5 days playing.
        (3) Exploring point reaches 50% or above.

When you reached the above condition, you can advance to apprentice wizard
at your own guild. Apprentice wizards will not be able to read most of the
game related codes or documents. You have to go to Wizard guild and train
under Wizard Academic. After you pass the academic, you have to find a
wizard with at least "adept" level to sponsor you. A wizard will have
his/her own workroom and directory to store files.

Responsibility and duties of wizards
------------------------------------

    Wizards are not players, the responsibilities of wizards are to put
    efforts on building new areas, monsters, quests.. etc. for the mud. The
    rules for wizards are similar to those of players. Use help wiz_rules
    for detail.

    In Eastern Stories, every wizard belongs to a domain. You have to join
    at least one domain to help building or general stuff. In a domain,
    different level of wizards have different responsibilities and duties,
    they are as follow:

    Admin or God:
        The person who own the mud, and keep it up and running normally.
        Usually they have the account on the machine which the mud is
        running on, therefore they are always wizards that are local to the
        machine. Gods in mud have the highest level of power and are not
        limited by the rules. They decided and made up rules for mud.
        (There is no democracy in mud. *grin*).

    Archwizard:
        Leader of one specific domain, each domain will have only one
        archwizard. Arches can read and write everything under domain
        directory and are responsible to control the read/write access for
        other wizard in the domain. Arches duties are: QC, domain planning
        and development, promote/demote, punish/reward fellow wizards
        belong to this domain.

    Sage:
        Sages are the assistant of archwizards, usually they have
        read/write access to everything except adm/ directory of that
        domain. Sages are the candidates for the position of archwizards.
        The duties of sages are maintain the regular operation of domain.

    Adept:
        Adept wizards are those who contribute significantly in the
        belonging domain and are promoted by archwizards or sages. The
        duties of adept wizards are to help new wizards familiar with the
        environment and answering questions. They also can write areas of
        their own.

    Wizard:
        The basic and main work force of a domain. The everyday work for
        wizards are to write and create new areas, monsters or quests.

    Each domain might have different plans on building and developing area.
    Thus the description of the above positions might vary from domain to
    domain. Ask the senior wizards before you join and start working.


Wizards creation
----------------
    A wizard can write anything using the LPC language. Here we divided the
    type of works of wizard into two: area writing and personal creation.
    Area writing are the works you done for the domain you belong to,
    normally the files for those works are stored under your directory
    while you are working on it. Once it is finished, they will be moved
    to the domain directory. Personal creations are more flexible, they can
    be maze, castle or dungeons.. etc. or any other stand along areas. We
    do not encourage novice wizards putting too much time on creating
    personal areas, therefore, you must at least be an adept wizard to have
    your own personal creation areas open to the general player.
    The followings are creating guild lines:

    A)Area planning: Try to make it simple and useful. Try not to put up
                     too many rooms without specific purpose.

    B)NPC designing: Most NPC should have normal strength and should fit
                     into the themes of the area. For small areas, the
                     levels of each NPC shouldn't be too far apart, please
                     consider the target player's level when making NPC.
                     For bigger areas, try to use normal distribution, but
                     try not to have too many NPC that are too high of
                     levels. For the strength of NPC, use help standard.
                     And, try to let each NPC has his/her/its own style of
                     fighting or specialities.

    C)Equipments: General guild lines are the same as NPC, but please do not
                  let an individual NPC wears/wields too many good
                  equipments. Also try to add different/special properties
                  to the armor/weapon, use help armors_standard & help
                  weapons_standard for reference.

Quality Control (QC)
--------------------

    All wizard creations, including domain area writing and personal
    creations, need to pass quality control before it can be open to the
    players. The QC for personal creations are more strict, in order to
    open it, you have to have the support of at least two archwizards, one
    of them has to be the archwizards of your own domain.

A) How to request for QC: When you are done and ready with your area, put
                          everything under a directory, make up a list for
                          all armors/weapons and the level of NPCs, along
                          with a short description of the area. Mail those
                          to the domain archwizard for QC. After passing
                          QC, the arch will discuss with you about adding
                          explore points into the area and move the files
                          to the domain directory for testing. The sages of
                          that domain will be in charge of maintaining the
                          area.

Promotion/Demotion of wizards:
------------------------------

    A) When you become an apprentice wizard for awhile, you can choose to
       join a domain. You need to have at least a sage of that domain to
       promote you.

    B) Wizards that help the domain building areas, equipments and NPC will
       be given points according to the quality of their works. Once you
       are qualify, the archwizard of that domain will promote you to adept
       wizard.

    C) Adept wizards, once their areas are open for public, will be given
       points depending on the quality and quantity of the areas. Once you
       have enough points, domain arch can promote you to become sage.

    D) When domain archwizards moved on, one of the sages in that domain
       will be selected to become archwizard.

    E) The position of admin are given by ROOT, usually they are local
       archwizard who contributes a lot of works on the mud.

    F) When ROOT left the mud, one of the admin will taking over the
       position.

    G) Wizards found violating the above rules will be warned, demoted, or
       banished from wizardhood, depends on the offending scale.


If you have other questions:
----------------------------

    Most of them can be found under /doc directory. Try to find them
    yourself. If someone sent you to read a document for a question you
    asked, then you need to put more effort on reading documents.

    If you can't find the solution in the /doc directory, don't worry. You
    can try to read the source code, usually the there are comments on each
    section of the code and they are very easy to understand. 99% of the
    files here are text files, you can use more to view them.

                       Written by Annihilator 11-03-93
                       updated by Kyoko       09-10-94
                       English translating: Elon

