    About 300 years ago, Farwind was only a small town near the eastern
coast of Noden Kingdom. At that time, people thought that the world was a 
plain, surrounded by a big ocean which poured into a bottomless abyss at
the end of the sky. Some brave adventurers had been exploring the ocean,
but never dare try to seek the abyss.

    Until about 200 years ago, when a stranger came to the Farwind town. He
was dressed in strange cloth and spoke a strange tongue. After some effort
on communicating, people learned that the stranger came from the "eastland",
far away from Noden to the east. His ship was struck by a sudden storm
and wrecked at the beach near Farwind. People were surprised by all the 
treasures the stranger had brought with him, and began to dream of such a
golden eastland.

    Some brave adventurers and merchants began to try sail forth to the far
eastland, attempting to find an ocean route to the eastland. Ten years passed,
a team of adventurers sent by King Yaramon III had finally landed at the
shore of this wonderful eastland. They brought tons of presents from eastland
and told the people of Noden about this wonderful eastland. Since then, carv-
rns and exploring adventurers begin to travel to the eastland. The Farwind
town became the biggest town with the exception of the capital, Nodania.

    During the ten years of seeking eastland, adventurers had discovered
many new islands near the Noden contient. Thousands of undead live in a
small island to the the north. A bloody-red tower looms on an island to the 
northeast, which is full of man-eating plants. The entrance of a huge
underground palace was found on a small island to the southeast. However,
the worst thing had happened. A group of merchants had discovered another 
contient to the west of Noden. In other words, they were "discovered" by
those deadly Moorth Knights patrolling the shore.

    People of Noden were shocked that there existed such a big continent to
the west, with the mighty Moorth Empire on it. They don't know the existance
of each other until the Noden merchants landed on Moorth shore. As most
fore-tellers said, there was a mighty wizard in the ancient time who set up
a great magical barrier between the two contients. When ships meet the
barrier, they are turned around without even noticing. Until the Noden
merchants were lead through the gap of the magical barrier by a mistake
of their compass, they discovered each other. Those mighty Moorth mages
immediately detected the existance of the barrier and try to dispel it.

    Moorth Empire was a millitary empire, which has conquered the entire
Moorth contient. Noden people knew little about them. The only thing they
worried about was that the magical barrier may become weaker in certain
situations. Once upon a time, a group of Moorth knights and some mages
broke through the barrier and invaded the Noden Kingdom. However, there
were not many of them. After a bloody battle, all the invaders were defeated.
But this began to be a big threat to Noden people. Many Royal Knights of
Noden had died in the combat against Moorth Knights. They have built the
Knight's Guild to recruit more knights to defend Noden Kingdom. More and
more people began to travel to the eastland to seek the legendary fighting
skills of eastern people. It is said that the eastern people's traditional
fighting skills are the most powerful, that can defeat any opponent bare-handed.
Nowadays young adventurers of Noden are travelling through Noden, Eastland
and the ocean, seeking the way to their dreams and adventures.

    Here, started the Eastern Stories.

                     Original By Annihilator Oct 5, 1993
                       Refined by Mohtti Oct 12, 1993
                   Minor modification by Platino Mar 16, 1994
               Any suggestion, extension or ideas are welcome.
