From   : Mobydick
To     : Mobydick
Date   : Wed Dec 31 19:00:00 1969
Subject: Note 'Re: vi'------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Title: Re: vi
From:  Marauder
Date:  Fri Jul 30

I added "vi" to this driver about a year ago -- while I was working
on Underdark.  Unfortunately, I no longer have the diffs, I passed
them on to Falchan@Underdark after I quit mega-mudding.  I also
posted a message to r.g.m.lp about how to do it -- I did not save that
either.

Alexus' is right, you have to put the telnet connection into char
mode -- easy enough, check out the telnet sources.  Interestingly
enough, most connections to muds are in character mode because
line mode has become obsolete on most telnet programs.  After
massaging the connection, you need to ioctl() it back into
blocking I/O mode, as "vi" will expect this interaction --
just look at fcntl() or ioctl() for how to do this.  Then
set a bit in the socket select() masks to indicate that this
connection must be ignored until "vi" returns.  Next comes the
tricky part, fork() of the vi process (ok, easy enough), but
then you need to massage the file descriptor table to make vi
think the socket is standard input and standard output, see
dup() and dup2() for details on this hackery...  Ok, now
the really hard part ;-), you need to make a "reaper" that
will asynchronously wait for the "vi" child process.  This
can be done with a signal handler that catches SIGCHILD, and
then does a wait3().  There is an example of a "reaper" in the
ftpd sources.  Lastly, you need to handle all error condition on
the child process and the socket, otherwise you will get defunct
processes galore.

Security is a pain.  You'll need to hack out the subprocess option
in "vi" and you'll also need to check read and write permission on
the file name passed to "vi".  In my implementation, I made a general
sub-processes efun, that used callbacks in master.c to check validy
of the subprocess and possibly check and change any arguments.

It was not a major drain on the system, and it did not significantly
slow down the net or the mud that I noticed.  "vi" is by no means
a high bandwidth program -- now check out an "xtrek" server with 15
active clients -- that's a bandwidth user!

Regards,
Marauder

p.s. I never really even used the darn thing, I think ange-ftp in emacs
is a much better (holistic) solution -- I did it mostly because many
said it could not be done, I'd do it again right if I had the time... :(


